# Server

## Description

### Stash structure

#### ETS

State is saved to ETS in the following form after `LiveStash.stash_assigns/2` is called:

```elixir
@type t ::
  record(:state,
    id: term(),
    pid: pid(),
    delete_at: integer(),
    ttl: integer(),
    state: map()
  )
```

**id** - UUID generated by LiveStash per LiveView concatenated with the [secret](./configuration.md) and hashed

- **pid** - PID of the LiveView process currently owning the stash

- **delete_at** - Timestamp of creation + TTL

- **ttl** - Time To Live of the record

- \*state\*\* - Your stashed state

#### Browser

In server mode **node hint** and **stash id** are saved in browser memory.

- **node hint** - The last node that the client was connected to. It is used in a clustered environment to optimize the retrieval of the state

- **stash id** - UUID generated by LiveStash per LiveView, used to create the ETS record id

### State recovery

Stashed state is recovered from the ETS table.

In a clustered environment, if the client reconnects to a different server node, LiveStash uses RPC to fetch the state from the previous node. In this scenario, the state is deleted from the old node and securely saved in the new one. To optimize finding the correct node, the **node hint** saved in the browser is utilized.

### Reseting the stash

Stashed state is automatically cleared after the TTL passes, provided the process owning the state is dead. If the process is still alive, the `delete_at` time gets bumped by the TTL.

State can also be cleared manually by calling `LiveStash.reset_stash/1`.

## Configuration

### Security

In server mode, the secret defined in the **general configuration** is used as part of the record ID for your stashed state.

### Expiration (TTL)

Stashed data in server mode has a Time-To-Live (TTL) to prevent stale state from persisting indefinitely. The default TTL is 5 minutes. You can adjust this using the `:ttl` option.

```elixir
use LiveStash, mode: :server, ttl: 60 * 1000,
```

### Cleanup interval

Determines how often the background task runs to remove expired state records from the ETS table.

**Default:** `60_000` ms (1 minute)

To override this, add the following to your `config/config.exs`:

```elixir
config :live_stash, :ets_cleanup_interval, 60_000
```

### ETS table name

Defines the name of the ETS table created by LiveStash to hold the server state. You might want to change this if you need to avoid naming collisions with other libraries in your application.

Default: `:live_stash_server_storage`

To override this, add the following to your `config/config.exs`:

```elixir
config :live_stash, :ets_table_name, :my_custom_table_name
```

### Cleanup batch size

Specifies how many expired records the cleanup task will delete in a single batch. Limiting the batch size prevents the cleanup process from blocking the ETS table or the Erlang scheduler for too long during heavy loads.

Default: `100`

To override this, add the following to your `config/config.exs`:

```elixir
config :live_stash, :ets_cleanup_batch_size, 100
```
